[ Music ]
>> Lisa Garr: Hi, I'm Lisa
Garr, host of Gaiam Inspiration.
Science has shown
us that 90 percent
of illnesses are stress-related,
and a major source
of that stress comes from our
minds and the negative thoughts
that we had that are
stressful to the body.
Today, my guest, Inna
Segal, is the creator
of Visionary Intuitive Healing,
and she's joining us to talk
about how to clear
those negative thoughts
so that we can be responsible
for our own well-being
and self-healing.
Welcome to the show.
Thank you for being here.
>> Inna Segal: Thank
you for having me.
I'm so excited.
>> Lisa Garr: That's great.
So I love the fact that you are
teaching us to be responsible
for our own self-healing rather
than you being the
healer saying, "Come to me
and you can have all of
your healing done by me."
Why did you choose to do
that even though you
have intuitive gifts?
>> Inna Segal: Because I
really believe that all
of us have those gifts, and
I underscored early on that
if people came to me, it would
be the same as them thinking,
you have the magic wand
and I'm disempowered,
and you are empowered.
And it would be the
same thing as, you know,
them thinking this
generally in their life,
and so I really wanted
to surprise people.
I wanted them to discover
how amazing they are,
not just how great I
am and what I can do,
because no matter
what I can tell you,
no matter what memory I
can see inside your body
or what physical problem,
it's much more powerful
if you can do that.
Because even if people
could see me once or twice,
they have their whole life and
they need to connect themselves
and love their own
bodies and become friends
with their bodies, not
just think that someone
out there can do this for them.
>> LG: Exactly.
Exactly. So you've had quite
an experience and a journey
in your own healing
journey, I should say.
Did you notice at an early
time you had these gifts?
Or did you get to a place
where you were just not well
and started to learn
self-healing?
>> IS: In a way, I feel
that intuition has been part
of my life from early on,
but I didn't really
know the difference,
I just thought everybody
was like me.
So I would have more of
a feeling and knowing
that something would
happen and it would happen,
but I really thought it
was like that for everyone.
And what happened to me
was that I was in pain
for a long time in my life.
I had digestive problems where
I would end up in the hospital
and doctors didn't know
what to do with me.
I had psoriasis all
over my skin.
I had anxiety.
And as I started to get a little
bit older into my teenage years,
I started to get back pain.
So I was going to see a lot of
health practitioners, doctors,
chiropractors, physiotherapists,
and I wasn't getting better.
And then I got to
a turning point --
I think many of us have a
turning point in our lives --
and I woke up one day
and I was in agony.
My back was twisted to a point
where I literally couldn't turn.
And I didn't know what to
do because I was in agony.
And I asked my husband to
take me to the chiropractor.
And on the way there, I could
feel every bump in the road.
I was literally going out of
my body it was so painful.
>> LG: Wow.
>> IS: And when I got to
the chiropractor's office,
he came out, took
one look at me,
and said, "Your body's stuck."
And I said, "I know that part.
What are you going
to about this?"
And he was very quiet, and
then he said, "Nothing."
I said, "What do
you mean nothing?"
He said, "Your body
wants to be stuck.
Go home." On the way home --
>> LG: Wow.
>> IS: -- I was so angry.
So I kind of went from
depression to anger.
And I think anger
gives you action.
And so what occurred to me was
that when I got to Australia,
I was born in Russia, and I
didn't know one word of English.
And this was the same problem;
I didn't know one word of how
to connect to my body and
what language was speaking.
And so I decided, I don't
know how, but I'm going home
and I am healing myself.
>> LG: And you just
started from there?
That was the beginning
of your journey?
>> IS: Yeah.
>> LG: So it sounds like
what you did is you made the
decision first.
>> IS: I made the decision.
I got home, and I
intuitively understood
that breath was the key.
>> LG: Oh, okay.
>> So I placed my hands on my
back and I started to breathe
into the pain, and
then I started
to count backwards from 30.
Because my brain started to --
my mind started getting in there
and saying, yeah, but
who do you think you are?
And so as I was counting back
from 30, in those moments
of peace, you know, in those
moments between thoughts,
it occurred to me that the
only way I was going to heal is
if I had divine intervention.
And so I said, okay, there is
something divine out there,
I want help, and I want it now.
>> LG: So you started to pray?
>> IS: Yeah.
And I didn't expect anything.
There was no expectation.
And I started to feel warmth
and energy go through my body,
and I also saw gold light, and I
thought, something's happening.
And my next question was,
can I see inside my body?
And literally, a switch went
on and I could see my spine.
I could see all the vertebrae.
I could see the twisted
vertebrae.
I could see inflammation.
And I said, "Why?"
I want to know why.
And this is when all this
information started to pour out.
My thought patterns, my beliefs,
they were really negative.
I never felt that I could
do what I wanted to do.
I would try, but I really
didn't feel like I could.
I had feelings of rejection
from coming to Australia
from a country that was
difficult at that moment.
People didn't like
people from Russia,
so I was always told go home,
or I never felt accepted.
So all of that -- my
parents were always fighting
so I didn't feel safe.
I didn't feel supported.
I never knew if they
were going to be there.
And then my grandparents
had gone through the war;
most of the members of
the family were killed,
they suffered atrocious
experiences,
and they never talked
about it for 50 years.
So all of this was in my
body; ancestral memories,
my own cellular memories.
And then I was always
taking on people's energy.
And as I was recognizing it,
I just kept saying,
"I'm letting this go.
I'm letting this go."
And I was crying --
>> LG: Yeah, definitely.
>> IS: -- and feeling it.
And then I think I was so
exhausted, I just fell asleep
and had the best sleep of
my life, and the next day
when I wake up, 70 percent
of the pain was gone
and my spine was straight.
>> LG: Oh, my goodness.
It was as if all the ancestral
pain was dumped into this --
that body, was the body
you were born with,
and you absorbed it all and
all and all of it, all of it.
And you were able to -- so
when you had that experience
of being able to see
inside your body,
can you remember it crystal
clear like it was yesterday?
>> IS: Yeah.
>> LG: It was a real vision?
Because I was scared.
I thought, what's happening
to me, like, wow, you know.
And at the -- in one moment,
I thought it was a dream
but it was a little scary.
>> LG: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> IS: Because I could
see what was going on
and it was literally
x-ray vision.
>> LG: And so how -- when you
had that experience and you woke
up pain-free, did you make
a decision at that moment
to help others or to
continue on your journey?
Or what was your
decision at that moment?
>> IS: At that moment I was
just so excited because --
I know it sounds funny,
but my first thought was,
I can wear high heels.
[ Laughter ]
But --
>> LG: You got to be a girl.
Okay.
>> IS: I was 20.
And I guess I really
thought, I want to --
70 percent of pain is gone
but I still had some pain,
and I still had psoriasis
on my skin,
and I still couldn't eat well.
So I thought, I'm going
to just explore this
and see what happens.
And literally, for the three
weeks, I was exploring.
By the end of three weeks,
connecting to my body
and asking questions and
changing cellular memory,
but I didn't know what I
was doing to be honest.
>> LG: And what did
your husband say?
She's gone nuts?
>> IS: No.
He was saying, "Stay in bed
until you are completely
healed."
He was very supportive and --
>> LG: Nice.
>> IS: -- by the end
of those three weeks,
I had almost no psoriasis
-- and it was bad before.
I had -- my digestive
problems had disappeared.
I could eat anything.
And my anxiety went right
down and no back pain.
I actually went to see this
chiropractor six months later
for a checkup, and he said,
"I don't know what you did,
but whatever you did, keep
doing it because it works."
>> LG: Yes.
Yes. Absolutely.
So you kept doing it.
And then when did you
start to be able to see
in other people what
was going on with them?
>> IS: There was two key
experiences that I had.
One was, I had a friend -- and I
can't say she was a real friend,
but she was somebody who
was studying with me --
because I was studying writing.
I wanted to be a writer.
And so her and I were
writing a story, and she came
over about three weeks after
this, and I was typing,
and at one point, I
just looked at her
and I saw a cartoon-looking
liver above her head,
and I didn't even know it was a
liver -- the only reason I knew,
because it said "liver."
>> LG: Okay.
>> IS: And my eyes
were going like that,
and she said, "Are you okay?"
And I said, "Can I
ask you a question?
Do you have liver problems?"
And she said, "How do you know?"
And I said, "I don't know.
Do you?" And she said, "Yes,
I've had liver problems
my whole life."
And as I said that,
the image changed
and I actually saw
her grandfather,
I saw him in a concentration
camp.
I had no idea about this,
and I asked her this,
and she said, "It's true."
I felt that she had nightmares,
And then I said something
that I thought, oh, my God.
I could be so wrong.
And I said your problem
isn't in your DNA.
And I'm thinking, oh, my God --
>> LG: Where did
that come from, yeah.
>> IS: And she said --
and two years later,
she had tests done,
and it was proven.
I also told her a lot of things
about her family
that she didn't know.
She called her mom on her phone,
and her mom said, "It's true."
So I don't know who was
more freaked out, her or me.
And then the next day, my
mom calls me and she says,
"Your dad hurt his leg at work.
He's having a lot of problems.
Can you do some healing?"
And I'm thinking "how."
And she said, "Just try it out.
You healed yourself.
You can do it."
>> LG: Oh, my goodness.
>> IS: And this is distance
because he wasn't there.
>> LG: No pressure.
>> IS: Yeah, no pressure.
And I was concentrating
on my dad and on his leg,
and I kept seeing boats;
everywhere boats, boats.
And I called her back
and I'm saying, "Really?
At work or in the boat?
I think he's hurt
his leg on a boat."
"No, he hasn't been on a boat."
"Okay, call him."
And she said, "No, no, no."
"Please call him."
So she calls him and
then he calls me,
and he says, "What
are you doing?"
And I said, "I have
this new gift
that can see into the body."
>> LG: Wow.
>> IS: "Did you hurt your
leg at work or in a boat?"
And he said, "On a boat
but I don't want you
to tell your mom."
It's like, "It's great
that you have this gift,
but stop telling
your mom things."
And I'm like, "Stop lying
because now I know."
And so I sent him healing, and
the next day, he was better,
so I thought, okay, I
need to learn about this.
And so I started interviewing
a lot of well-known people
who were teaching about this
because I wanted to
go to the source.
I wanted to know, not from other
people, but how did you do it
and can I do this,
and, you know, and --
>> LG: And the rest is history.
>> IS: Exactly.
>> LG: Well, you have
written a book about this,
and I love the way that
you've done the book.
It's very creative.
There's three different parts.
We're actually going to take
a little bit at a video here
that will explain this.
Take a look.
[ Music ]
>> IS: And this secret
language of your body,
I share with you my
personal experience
and how I healed myself.
I also reveal an easy
step-by-step process you can use
to tune into your
body, receive messages
from it, and heal yourself.
It's so simple, anyone
can do it.
[ Music ]
In the first section, I take you
through every conceivable
body part.
I share with you some of the
most common thought patterns,
emotional challenges, behaviors,
and possible energetic causes
of dysfunction in your body.
>> Great for practitioners,
therapists, also coaches,
anyone who needs
healing in their life.
>> IS: I also provide quick,
easy, and effective processes
to heal and regenerate
every part of your body.
>> I had a miracle healing.
>> Some of those
problems that I have had,
I've used the processes
in the book.
>> I've since then
had no back pain.
>> I can breathe
through my nose.
>> IS: In the second
section, I share with you some
of the possible causes of
hundreds of different diseases
and physical ailments.
>> It's pretty spot on.
>> I think it's been become
increasingly important
in medicine in the future.
>> It never ceases to amaze
me how accurate the book is
and how Inna's intuition
is just so pure.
>> IS: In the third section,
I explain how your emotions
can either contribute
to your well-being or
lead to ill health.
>> And so consequently, I
think if you get your emotions
in order, everything's fine.
If you follow this book, you
can get your emotions in order.
>> IS: In the fourth section,
I describe how you can
use the power of color
to empower every
area of your life.
This is a great way to
unleash your creativity
and involve your whole
family in self-healing.
>> If you're suffering
from self-esteem issues
or even depression, color
can be a fantastic way
of really giving you a pickup
and a great confidence boost.
[ Music ]
>> IS: The final section
of the book helps you learn
about the different roles the
systems of your body play.
They teach lessons
of love, confidence,
compassion, and forgiveness.
>> This, for me,
is probably the one
of the new frontiers
for psychology.
>> When placing the book on the
shelf, I just want to buy it,
take it home, and share it
with all [inaudible]
family and friends.
>> I recommend it.
>> IS: I truly hope that you
will use the secret language
of your body as a guide
to discover your own
incredible healing abilities,
listen to the wisdom
of your body.
And have an extraordinary life
[ Music ]
>> LG: Okay.
So I want to get into, if you
can, examples of the book.
So say, for example --
all right, so the beginning
of the book, I look up
and I say I have
adrenal fatigue, okay,
and I know that my
adrenals are burnt out,
and it says there's
a remedy here.
All right.
So what would the remedy
be for something like that?
I'm asking you to quote your
book, but I'll tell you --
did I put you on the spot there?
Sorry. But what is
adrenal fatigue from?
And I bring this up
because there's a lot
of people in the situation.
>> IS: There's several reasons.
One of them is that we don't
use our energy properly,
and we drank a lot of
coffee in the morning,
and so we literally switch our
body into unnatural energy,
and then we don't listen
and we keep pushing.
And, you know --
and adrenal fatigue
and exhaustion is
all about pushing.
It's about frustration.
It's about not listening
to your body.
It's about constant stress.
>> LG: Yes.
And sometimes in this day
and age, you're tired,
you need to bring
the kids to school.
I mean, you have to go
into a certain go-pattern.
I'd love to stay in bed all
day but that doesn't work
out for the situations
I set around myself.
>> IS: What I love to
teach people is how
to use really short processes
throughout the day, you know,
to regenerate themselves.
And I know we can talk
about it a bit later,
but I think that we always
think that we need one hour
or we need a long
time to connect
to the body, but we don't.
Sometimes we just need
30 seconds but we need
to do it consistently
throughout the day.
So in all the processes
that I'm teaching,
I'm always asking people
to place your hands
on that part of the body.
So we would place our hands
on the adrenal glands.
>> LG: Above --
>> IS: Above the kidneys, and we
start to breathe into that area
and feel what's going on there.
How am I feeling.
And I always ask
people to connect,
breath, feel, ask questions.
And the kinds of
questions we would ask is,
what kind of beliefs do I have?
So maybe I have beliefs
that I have
to keep going no matter what and
I don't allow myself to relax
because my life is so busy.
And I know this because
I've done it --
>> LG: Yes, yes.
>> IS: -- you know,
and I'm always, okay,
take your own lessons.
We asked the questions.
And then in every process in
the book, I'm asking for people
to use a releasing statement.
Because we all know about
affirmations, but we must let go
of what doesn't work
first before --
>> LG: So when you get the
intuitive message in your body
that you're running too fast
or you're overscheduled,
so do you -- how do you
release something like that?
>> IS: So I always say to
people, we always start
with divine intelligence.
And if you don't like
it, you can change it.
But the reason I use that is
because there is an
intelligence inside the body
and the universe, and so why
not ask for something divine.
>> LG: Like you had?
That experience
>> IS: Yeah, like I had.
And see what happens.
And then I ask, okay,
please help me to release.
Because we need to ask for help
and we need to ask the body,
please let go of my
frustration, my fear, my stress,
my running around, and so on.
And so we say that to ourselves,
out loud, or even in our mind.
And then I ask people to say,
"And all points of view."
Because we get stuck
in a point of view
that this is the only way
that we can have our life be.
And because we believe that,
that's the only way it
shows up -- the hard way.
>> LG: Yes.
>> IS: And then I say,
"And release all negative
and positive charge."
And charge is a combination of
emotion, belief, and reaction.
So we react to things, either
negative charge or positive,
where negative meaning, you
know, my body's reacting
and I don't know
why to this person,
to this experience,
and I can feel sick.
I can feel negativity.
And positive charge is
what I call overexcited
and underprepared.
Where we think, okay,
if I just get this job,
my life is going to be perfect.
>> LG: Right.
>> IS: If I just do
this, if I get this done,
I'm going to be relaxed.
And then we're not.
And then we get disappointed
and we become really negative,
and so positive charge
becomes depression.
And so I want to
people let go, cleanse.
And then I ask them to work
-- to repeat the word "clear,"
and this word is to clear,
it's like a vacuum cleaner.
Let's clean this up --
>> LG: And it resets everything.
>> IS: Yeah.
And then I say to them, "Okay,
let's think of something
positive.
What do we want to
bring into our body?"
And so they do these
process, and after that,
I might work with color.
So it's very, very easy
to work with color.
>> LG: I love that color.
I love the color aspects of it.
We're going to get into the
color because it's so beautiful.
But just give us an
idea of what it does.
How does the color works?
>> IS: Color works as energy.
It's vibrational, you know.
And later on maybe I can
show process on how to do it.
>> Oh. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I would love that.
So -- all right.
So go ahead.
>> IS: So we work with color,
and it's very, very easy.
It's energy.
It's putting energy
back into our body.
And we are told that we
are 99 percent energy,
so it makes sense
to work with color.
And then I also say to
people, "If there is emotions,
then we need to work with some
of these emotions and we need
to release the negative emotions
and put in the positive,"
and I also put that
information in the book.
And even in each process, you
are told, these are the colors,
these are the emotions
that you can work with.
So the idea is to keep going
back and forth in the book.
>> LG: I think this is great.
You also have a little aspect
in here of, so it's kind
of Louise Hay, you can
hear your life-ish.
You state the common cold, and
here's some of the symptoms
of it and then here's
what to do to address it.
Explain that a little bit.
>> IS: Yeah.
I really felt that I wanted
to give information a little
bit more than Louise Hay
because her book was written
in like 25 or 30 years ago,
so there's a lot more that's
been available since then.
And for me, the way that I got
my information was literally
tuning into thousands
of people and writing
down this information, you know.
And I thought, she's
amazing, brilliant,
but I want to go a
little bit further now.
And so the idea is,
again, to look up something
like a common cold, and then go,
what am I going to do about it?
Okay. I need to go to the
section on chest and throat.
>> LG: Okay.
>> IS: So work with that.
And then, at the
same time, again,
I'm going to work with color.
And the best color is orange
because it cleanses the chest.
>> LG: Nice.
>> IS: And also in
different parts of the book,
I give you pressure point,
you know, like where do I --
which point do I need
to press to help me.
Because I really feel that
we need to touch the body.
Or I might work with mudras,
which are basically yoga
of the hands, and they've
been around for a long time.
And so each mudra gives you
that opportunity to connect
to your breath, to connect
to your body, to cleanse.
>> LG: An example
of a mudra would be?
>> IS: One of my favorites,
speaking of the cold,
this is the one for the
cold and weight loss --
>> LG: Oh, perfect.
>> IS: -- together.
So you bring your hands
together, and one thumb goes up,
another thumb, the index
fingers are touching each other.
>> LG: Okay.
>> IS: So -- and it
doesn't matter which hand.
And then you just hold this
mudra around your chest
in a very relaxed way from
two minutes to 15 minutes,
depends on what you're
going through.
And it literally
cleanses your sinuses,
it activates your
metabolism, it burns fat,
it re-energizes the
body, and it's amazing.
So what I say to people is, do
that and combine it, let's say,
with a color like orange.
So I might close my eyes,
visualize orange light going
into my chest and cleansing it.
And at the same time, I'm doing
it physically with this mudra,
and then I might, you know,
visualize how my cells
are regenerating,
how negative energy is coming
out, my metabolism is working.
If I'm working on weight loss,
I visualize myself becoming
the way that I want to be.
>> LG: Wonderful.
Where did you learn this?
>> IS: I wanted to study
everything, you know,
so I went to study the Eastern
philosophy and the Western.
And also intuitively,
I just receive a lot
of information tuning
into people and myself.
I receive.
And so I wanted to combine
everything, but what I found was
that Eastern philosophy
didn't always work for people
in the Western world,
because we're busy.
We're running around.
We don't have eight
hours to meditate.
>> LG: Yes, right.
Yes.
>> IS: Or even one sometimes.
So I wanted to -- and
I have a busy life,
and I really want to be well.
So I wanted to combine
all this so I could be
on the plane and doing this.
Nobody knows.
It doesn't look too weird.
It's like, oh, yeah, I'm just,
you know, holding my hands
in a weird position
but nobody cares..
>> LG: Speaking of intuitive,
when you are in situations
like on a plane or in
busy airports or traveling
or even one-on-ones with people,
do you pick up intuitively
what's going
on with the other person?
And how do you close that down
so you don't get
overwhelmed and blown out?
>> IS: Well, at the beginning
I didn't know how to do that,
so I would cross the road
and just hear everything.
I would know what
the person was going
through just crossing the
road and I was thinking,
I've got too much information.
>> LG: Go crazy, yeah.
>> IS: At one point, I
realized that, you know,
the way we are made is
that we can direct things
in ourselves, we can ask.
So I actually said to
myself, you know what,
I need that intelligence inside
of me to only allow me to tune
in when I want to,
when it's appropriate.
Because at the same time, people
were scared to be around me
because they would
say, oh, my God.
What do you see?
>> LG: Yes, yes, yes.
>> IS: And I'm like, no, no, no.
It's fine, you know.
And so I learned how to
switch that on and off.
And in my book "The
Secret of Life Wellness,"
I talk about protection and --
but not from fear, but from --
it's the same as
wearing clothes.
We need to wear --
unless you're in Spain --
>> LG: Okay.
[Inaudible]
>> IS: We need to wear
clothes, you know,
just because that's what we do.
And it's the same
with protection.
It's how do we connect and not
take on other people's energy
and not give our own to them
because sometimes
you don't feel good.
>> LG: Right.
Well, Inna has a lot
of great suggestions
for tools for busy people.
So take a look at this.
>> IS: You wake up in the
morning and you are going --
you decide -- you realize,
I have a lot to do.
So you start communicating both
with a universal intelligence,
and with the intelligence
of your brain and your body,
and you start asking empowering
questions like, all right --
and this is an example
-- "Divine intelligent,
I have a lot to do today.
Please help me.
Please support me.
Please allow that this happens
with ease, flow, and grace.
Allow me to get everything done
that I need to get done today,
but with ease and joy.
Let me be enthusiastic about
the work I need to do."
But let's say, you know,
you're really open,
you feel really good.
All right, "Divine intelligent,
show me something
fantastic today.
Help me to have the most
greatest, most vibrant,
most exciting day
that I can have today.
Give me some positive surprises.
Show me how today I can receive
more abundance into my life.
Show me how I can feel even
better than I feel now.
Give me energy.
Help me to experience my life in
the most vibrant positive way.
Bring to me people who
are going to inspire me."
[Gong] And what I say
to people in terms
of their divine intelligence
is, you know,
and you probably noticed
this in every several process
in the book, you start with
divine healing intelligence,
is that we have access to this
incredible divinity, you know,
and why should we do it
on our own, you know.
It's too hard.
It's a struggle, you
know, but when we connect
to something higher, we
just feel that, you know,
being taking care of or
protected or, you know, safer.
>> LG: Okay.
So since we're on the upper
body theme here about --
and we're talking about,
well, adrenal fatigue leading
to thyroid issues, so
they tend to be linked.
What types of techniques
can you suggest to people --
because I think it's one of the
most under diagnosed illnesses
in people right now is --
it's a slippery one, too,
because you can't really
identify it as easily.
And the ranges are a
little bit large right now.
So what do you think
about or what suggestions
or techniques can
you offer to people
who have thyroid imbalances?
>> IS: Well, it's
really interesting
because I've met a lot of women
who've used "The Secret Language
of Your Body" and used
the process for thyroid --
>> LG: Oh, there's
a specific category?
Great. Great.
>> IS: Yeah.
-- and have told me,
because I haven't had that,
so I'm always like, oh,
tell me if it works.
And even in the last month,
several women have said to me,
I've used the process
and I don't have
thyroid problems anymore,
or I have completed --
my medication is very,
very small now compared
to what it was.
So it's very exciting.
And what I'm saying to people,
firstly, besides the processes,
we need to communicate, not
just talk, but communicate.
Because thyroid issues
are all about suppression
and not saying things
that you need to say.
So whilst the processes are
great and regenerate body,
I really want people
to understand it's
about how you live your life.
This is why I wanted to
write about life wellness
because it's not
just the process.
But in terms of the process,
you know, blue is a great color
for your throat and anything
to do with the throat,
but I still think that
orange is very, very powerful
for thyroid issues;
orange and green.
And so we want to always connect
to the throat when we are
in the thyroid, when we
are asking questions.
And, again, the kinds of
questions we need to ask are,
what beliefs do I have the?
What's my point of view?
What emotions?
Where are they coming from?
Because very often we think
that the emotion is coming
from right now and it's not.
What memories do I have here?
And it's very important in
terms of cellular memory
that once we recognize
in memory, we change it.
That's the key.
It's not that we
completely change it,
but we need to adjust
it in a very small way.
Maybe I change the color.
Maybe in my memory I wasn't
able to speak to someone,
and now I imagine myself
speaking to that person.
>> LG: Interesting.
So I mean, just take
for example thyroid,
and I love how you're empowering
us to self-diagnose and to start
and begin our self-healing
process.
So you're saying to put your
hands on your thyroid and say,
what are my beliefs
around thyroid?
What are -- and --
>> IS: My throat.
Not my thyroid.
>> LG: Oh, okay.
>> IS: What's inside there.
I want the body to show you.
This is why you need to take
time, you need to breathe
and relax first, and then
start to ask, what's holding --
what about holding there?
Who am I not speaking to
that I need to speak to?
And in the book, I talk about
sometimes we have chains
around our throat literally --
>> LG: Ancestral?
I mean, are these
past-life type of --
>> IS: Could be combinations.
Could be a combination.
[Inaudible] go into past
life, it's very possible,
because a lot of --
it's not just women,
people in past lives were not
able to express themselves
because if they did,
they would die.
They would be killed.
>> LG: Right.
>> IS: Or maybe they
were killed for doing it,
and so they have this memory
of their -- in their throat --
I know it sounds a little --
>> LG: No, no.
I've heard it several
times, yeah, absolutely.
And so there's a lot of energy
around throats, around necks,
around thyroid, and it's just
one of those growing epidemics
so I thought we could talk
about it on a healing level.
>> IS: Yeah.
It in my second book, I
talk about past lives,
and I give you a process on
how to delve into past lives
and what can be there, because
not only can we have problems
or issues, but we might also
make vows and agreements.
And a vow is stronger
than a belief.
Just think about a wedding vow.
>> LG: Yes.
True. True.
>> IS: It's like, I am going to
spend my life with this person.
I'm going to do this.
So vows and agreements,
soul agreements --
>> LG: Your word.
Very strong.
>> IS: Yeah.
Very powerful and
drive our lives.
So when we let go -- and often
I will ask people, "Okay,
if you could see something,
what would it look like?"
And let's say they do see a
chain, and then I'll say, "Okay,
visual a purple fire
in front of you."
Because purple is the color
that dissolves energy.
"I want you to literally
take this chain and the lock,
let's get a key to
unlock your throat
so that you can communicate."
And a lot of people tell me,
"You've given me back my voice."
>> LG: Wow.
Very interesting.
I also noticed that you have
a lot of energy in your hands.
And people, we all, have
healing powers in our own hands.
How did you get in
touch with that
and how do you teach people?
Because you say, put
your hands on the area.
Put your hands on the area.
How do you teach us to use our
hands as our own healing tools?
>> IS: Well, firstly, there
is a chakra in the hands
that we already have, so
everybody has this capacity.
The way I teach people
is very simple and I try
to combine color with it.
And so I say, rub
your hands together.
And you rub your hands together
for about 30 to 40 seconds,
and even as you're rubbing
your hands together,
you're healing your body because
you have acupressure points all
over your hands.
>> LG: They're also heating up.
>> IS: Yeah.
Heating up.
And then I ask people to place
their hands next to each other
and start to feel that energy,
because this is what energy is.
They feel a tingling sensation.
And then I might say, let's
take color red and visualize it.
And if you can't visualize it,
look at the card, you know,
or look at, you know, have
something red in front of you.
And so then I'll say, okay,
let's imagine this big
ball of red energy.
How does it feel?
Is it hot or cold?
What are you feeling?
Is it heavy or light?
How far can I go
with this color?
And then I might even ask
them program the color
because it's speaking of energy.
When you have thyroid issues or
when you have adrenal issues,
you need energy, so
I'll say to them, okay,
I want you to imagine
that you're amplifying
this red energy --
because red is a
color for energy.
Now we're going to send
this energy literally
and breathe it in.
So if I'm doing it in
terms of my adrenal glands,
I will send it to my back and
maybe to my front and maybe
to my throat, and I will
be breathing that color in
and visualizing it
going into my body,
but also sending
it with my hands.
And then I'll place my
hands, you know, for a minute
on that part of the body
and I'll repeat the word
clear, clear, clear.
And the word clear also helps
to release any stuckness
in your nervous system
and your brain.
>> LG: That is a great exercise.
Thanks for the example
that you just gave.
We're going to take a look
at another example here
of another healing technique
that you can do on your own.
Take a look.
>> IS: So let's say that
you have a headache.
You read about it and you
go, all right, headaches;
so to do with stress or
overwhelming, tiredness,
seriousness, too much going on.
So just by reading this,
I already know I
need to slow down.
If somebody's getting
headaches again and again,
they have to slow down.
They have to release the stress.
Now, there is a process
in the book in the section
of emotions to do a stress.
So I might go to that section,
we do the process in the head,
but you can go further.
Let's say you go, all right.
But what else is in the head?
Oh, the brain.
So then do the process
on the brain as well.
Maybe not in the same day,
maybe on the next day,
maybe on the same day, depends
of how fast you want to heal.
So you connect things.
You might go, actually, you
know, it's in the middle
of my head, so maybe I'll do
process in the hypothalamus
because that's where
it is, you know.
And since hypothalamus
is connected
to our balance, why not.
You might go, pineal and
pituitary glands are there
if you have a headache
around here.
Excellent.
I'm going to go and read about
the pineal and pituitary gland
and I'm going to
do the processes
because they are connected to
hormones and hormonal balance,
and we want the body
to be balanced.
>> LG: Okay.
So this is a great
way to explain
that whole idea of color.
Where did you get the
insights around color
and how did you pull
it all together?
Because it seems to be a
really important point for you.
>> IS: I always loved color.
For me, it was something
that you need
to feel good in your life.
So I think I'd always want to
wear colorful clothes, you know,
and I would feel different
when I would wear color --
>> LG: You mean in
Russia you do this?
>> IS: No, because I
was really little then.
[ Laughter ]
I don't remember.
I just remember that
I always loved color.
And but, yeah, I remember
my mom left one time
and I was maybe four years
old and I was so excited
because I could choose
my clothes.
And my dad would say, "Okay,
these are the clothes
your mom chose."
"No. I'm choosing my own."
>> LG: Oh, that [inaudible]
over well.
>> IS: Free rein.
Free rein.
And what I found also when
I gave birth to my children,
they were really small, and
I wanted to know how to work
with them in a very gentle way.
And so I remember my son,
he had a skin condition
when he was a little baby,
and I tried everything.
I put on creams.
I did everything.
It wouldn't go; like eczema.
And then I thought,
you know what?
I'm going to try
this color healing.
And I think I worked
with yellow and green,
and I just rubbed my hands
together like I showed before,
and I sent this green light
and yellow light to his skin,
and within one day
it disappeared.
And I thought, this
is so great because --
>> LG: Wow.
>> IS: -- he was so
little, and I thought, oh,
this is a great thing.
And then when my children
were little and growing up,
I wanted to teach them every
night about meditation,
and I thought, color is the
easiest way that I can start.
>> LG: Yes, yes.
>> IS: And so every night --
>> LG: Great with children
>> IS: -- I was say,
"Pink is for the heart.
Now, let's be imaginative
and what are we going
to do with pink?"
And my daughter would say,
"Pink hearts everywhere.
We can imagine this."
So I would say, "Green,
let's work with green.
What's green for?
Energy and relaxation."
And then my son would
say, "Okay.
I want a green monsters."
And so I felt that it was
a great way to get them
to be creative, and
eventually both
of them recorded the
CD on color as well --
>> LG: Oh, great.
>> IS: -- when they
were -- a few years ago.
And I felt that color was just
a very easy and fun way to work
with healing, because
so often healing is seen
as such a serious,
serious thing.
But for me, because I started
when I was 20, I needed fun.
I needed joy.
I needed it to be something
that is accessible to anyone.
And even my grandmother, when
she was dying and she had --
she had leukemia, she was in
a lot of pain, and I decided
that I was going to
teach her about healing.
And the only way that I
could do it was to teach her
at that moment was through
color and through mudras
like I was showing before.
And she was fantastic.
And she would say to me,
"This is what actually
helps me with pain."
And my grandfather said to
me, "I don't know if I believe
in this stuff but I see
her and she's better."
>> LG: That's wonderful.
That's wonderful.
Color does, it creates beauty.
It's creates expansiveness.
It creates emotion.
And certain colors resonate
with you in different ways.
So we're going to
explore this a little bit.
Take a look at the -- what --
"The Secret Language of Color,"
and you can see what
this brings about.
Take a look at this visually.
And then we'll go
through these color cards.
[ Music ]
>> IS: Since the beginning of
time, people have used the power
of color to experience
beauty, heal, entertain,
and feel joyful and alive.
In my new card deck, "The
Secret Language of Color,"
you will have at your fingertips
45 color healing cards
that you can use to heal your
body, transform your emotions,
and bring more color
into your life.
You will learn the
secret properties
that different colors have to
bring you more joy, confidence,
clarity, abundance,
and creativity.
In the guidebook, I
show you various ways
to use the color cards for
healing yourself and others
to gain intuitive insights, do
chakra clearing, meditation,
increase your creativity,
and have more fun.
>> I was really amazed at the
way Inna used color for healing.
It was so imaginative
and creative.
>> IS: Each time
you pick a card,
you will not only receive
an inspiring message,
but also have an opportunity
to do a single process
that can help you
attract success,
uncover your brilliance,
free yourself from pain,
learn to scan your body,
create a balanced life,
attract a great relationship,
and many others.
>> Color not only makes
you feel more confident,
but it makes you
look more confident.
>> IS: I hope you enjoy
using this card deck as much
as I enjoyed researching
and writing it.
>> I really like the way
that Inna's put it together
because it shows us
that well-being is
our divine birthright.
>> IS: Please share this
card deck with your family,
your children, your
colleagues and everyone you know
and bring more color
into your life.
[ Music ]
>> LG: All right.
So we're going to play with
this a little bit and use some
of these beautiful
color cards here.
We have them with us
here in studio of --
and do a little bit of healing
energy with these color cards.
I think it's so important,
and I know specifically Gaiam is
very focused on color as well.
They choose colors
intentionally for healing.
Purple is one of the colors
that Gaiam particularly loves.
So here's four of the
purple cards you have here.
Why so many different ones?
Oh, that's even plum, yeah.
Okay.
>> IS: Because I
felt that each --
you know, we can have
generalizations about color
or we can have very
specific energy of color.
And I wanted people to
have this deck of cards
that could give them more
specific ways of working.
And so, you know, for instance,
you've got lavender here
and it's about -- it allows you
to connect to your mind, body,
and soul, but to align
them together, you know.
And then here we've got plum,
and it's about overcoming
your challenges
because it gives you a
different type of energy.
It's almost like this
passion to succeed.
>> LG: A deeper type of -- yeah.
>> IS: Yeah.
You know, and indigo
here we have,
and it is about improving your
vision, because purple colors,
in particular indigo,
is about your third eye,
about your intuition,
but it's amazing
in terms of your eyesight.
>> LG: Oh, wow.
Wonderful.
>> IS: Yeah.
So, you know -- and
anything to do with the head.
>> LG: So if you have -- if
you're maybe working in front
of your computer a lot and
you put up the indigo card
around the computer area, and
you look at that every now
and then as opposed to the
busyness on the screen,
you can soothe your eyes
a little bit that way?
>> IS: Yes.
And also, you can rub your
hands together, you know,
visualize the color, and then
put it just over your eyes,
or if you need to concentrate,
you can massage in the middle
of your forehead where we have
the pineal and pituitary glands,
and you just massage it for
about 30 seconds to a minute,
and visualize that
color, or just look at it,
and you're going to
have a huge difference.
>> LG: What about you
just mentioned focus,
and it was something I
was just thinking about.
Is there a specific color
that you can help resonate
or bring yourself into
the present moment
and to focus with?
>> IS: Yes.
Yellow.
>> LG: Let's find that.
Okay.
>> IS: Yeah, yellow.
I love yellow because to me it's
always happy and shiny and --
yeah, lemon and --
connecting your body.
And this one is about accessing
your innovative thinking
because yellow allows you
to go beyond your mind
and into your creativity.
So, again, we can rub our hands
together, visualize yellow,
and literally send that into our
brains, send it into our head.
We can do the same thing with
yellow as purple and just --
and sometimes I will actually
ask people to send yellow
through their whole body.
And if you need to
concentrate and be more present,
you always want the energy
to come from up, down.
>> LG: So purifying --
>> IS: Yeah.
So we are grounded.
If I want more upliftment, then
I will bring the energy up --
>> LG: Okay.
Okay.
>> IS: -- through my body.
>> LG: All right.
We're going to take a look at
a few of these color cards,
because I think they're
just visually beautiful.
We're going to put them
up full screen here
so that you can take
a look at this.
Here's brown and here's pearl.
So you mentioned grounding.
>> IS: Yeah.
>> LG: So this is the color --
and that's such a
pretty picture.
It's just soil, but it is
really a pretty picture.
>> IS: Well, you know, I
think it's about grounding
but making things grow as well,
and it's also about boundaries.
Not the boundaries we create
where we don't allow ourselves
to grow, but boundaries
where we say, you know what?
This is how to love myself.
>> LG: That's a great idea.
So this -- so, again,
resonating with this color.
Take a look at these as
you're going through this show
and see what resonates with you.
Pearl.
>> IS: Pearl is connecting
to the divine energy.
It's about purity,
it's about clarity,
it's about expansion, divinity.
>> LG: Yes.
Okay. All right.
Let's take a look at this.
You mentioned lavender.
>> IS: Yeah.
Connecting mind, body, and soul.
Because so often we think
with our minds, but, you know,
our soul is somewhere else,
a body is not connected
and it's like, how do we bring
that connection together?
>> LG: In one of your
meditations you talk
about getting connected
with your body as one
of the beginning stages
of any type of healing
or any type of meditation.
Would this color help
with that connection?
>> IS: Definitely.
Sometimes you can even imagine,
how would I imagine my mind?
How would I imagine
my body and my soul?
And it's like, let's connect
with this color, the three.
>> LG: Okay.
And then the other
one year, amber.
>> IS: Amber is the
color of creativity.
It's allowing ourselves
to be more creative,
to be more joyful.
And I love this color card
because it's as if
we're shining.
You know, there is this --
>> LG: Yes, it's beautiful.
>> IS: -- light that comes out.
We are gold and we are orange
and we are [inaudible], and we,
you know, we have so much
of this life within us.
>> LG: Do you ever associate
these colors with the seasons?
So, for example,
amber and fall --
>> IS: Yeah.
>> LG: -- associated together.
Is that a good relationship --
>> IS: Yes.
It's good to associate it in any
way that supports you inside,
because all of this, it's like,
how can I have more
strength in my body.
>> LG: I love fall because
it does, the changing
of the seasons, it's
getting cooler,
and it also is a
beautiful color display.
Nature has a paintbrush
during fall.
>> IS: I agree.
>> LG: Fall and spring
are my favorites.
Gold.
>> IS: Gold is one of the most
powerful colors in general,
and so I'm always
saying, use it wisely.
>> LG: Okay.
>> IS: You know, because it can
overwhelm your nervous system,
but it's also one of the
colors that heals anything.
So you combine it.
And this is why I wanted to
combine it with a little bit
of white, you know, because
white and gold are really,
really powerful, and this
is one of the best ways
to protect yourself but
also to allow abundance.
This is the color -- this
is the card for abundance.
Let's allow a lot of abundance,
and, you know, great things,
great opportunities, miracles
to come into our lives.
>> LG: And now -- and the
green card you mentioned is
for healing.
Is that what you said?
>> IS: For healing.
And this one is about connecting
to the nervous system.
Because green regenerates
and revives your body,
so you can meditate
with it, but it's not --
but it's kind of like,
it gives you energy.
It gives you an ability
to regenerate,
and it also reconnects
the nervous systems,
you know, the pathways.
It creates new pathways.
It's great for back pain.
One of the best colors for
back pain, for anything to do
with bones, and for the heart.
>> LG: And looking at
these three green cards
that I have here,
aqua, jade, and green,
and these are just great
cards to put up in your room.
>> IS: Yeah.
Next to your computer, anywhere.
Just anytime you see
color, it heals your body.
>> LG: I noticed that you have
intentional color that you use
in your wardrobe as well.
Do you -- you have fun
with it, don't you?
>> IS: Yeah.
I always connect to myself.
This is why I need to
have a lot of clothes
because I never know
what color I'm going
to connect with in the morning.
So I usually have, okay,
these of the three choices,
and then in the morning, I check
in and I go, how do I feel?
This one. And I always choose
it also based on what I'm doing
and who's next to me, because
I want them to feel connected
to that color and
for them to heal --
>> LG: -- through that color.
Nice, wonderful.
Now, what if you have an
all-black wardrobe, though?
Does that --
>> IS: You need to buy --
you need to go shopping.
>> LG: You need to have
some accents, accent colors.
>> IS: And also, you
need to break it up,
because whilst black
can be very powerful,
it can also drain the body.
So we always -- if we
wear black, we really want
to make sure that we
have other colors,
like I'm seeing magenta is
a great color for wisdom
and for allowing yourself
to feel passionate in life.
Orange, I've talked about
already, is a cleansing color.
One of the best colors to
take to cleanse emotions,
especially the ones
that have been stuck.
So I combine orange and red
together when I want people
to go really deep inside and
release traumatic memories.
>> LG: Interesting.
And is that one of
your favorites?
Do you have a favorite?
>> IS: I love so many colors.
Yeah, I [inaudible].
I love magenta.
I would say it would
be one of my favorites.
>> LG: Really?
>> IS: Yeah.
>> LG: Is one of your favorites.
And orange?
You said that earlier, right?
>> IS: And orange.
I like orange.
>> LG: You like orange.
>> IS: [Inaudible]
>> LG: All right.
So -- okay.
So sapphire, that's in
the blue family, right?
>> IS: Yeah.
Blue is a very calming color.
It's a cooling color.
So it's a color that's great
for clearing things in the skin.
So when we need -- you know,
when we have inflammation,
blue is one of the best
colors or sapphire.
You know, when we need to
relax and we're really anxious,
a lot of people have
anxiety, so blue's a color
that just lets you
calm down, relax,
great for the nervous system
in terms of relaxation.
>> LG: There's so many
different kinds of blue though.
There's the Royals and
then there's the darks
and the lights.
Is there a particular blue
that's great for anxiety?
>> IS: Yeah.
So the one that I'm wearing.
>> LG: Uh-huh.
It's a light -- lightish
blue, yeah.
>> IS: Yeah.
Really, the lighter
colors help you to relax
and to just soften your body.
>> LG: And then this is one
of my personal favorites is --
I call this "Bahamas blue."
[Chuckle]
>> IS: Yeah.
This one is great for your
throat, for communication.
So when we need to be more
confident, when we need we need
to communicate better, or
when you have a sore throat
and you just need just a
little bit of extra energy,
this is a great color.
>> LG: This is the color have
on my cell phone
screensaver is that color.
I took it out of a picture of
the window when I was flying
over that color of
blue, and I kept it.
It just really resonates.
But it's interesting.
As I explain that, you
can feel the same thing,
colors that you're resonating
with as you're looking
at these slides.
Pink and silver.
>> IS: Pink is one
of the best colors
for opening your
heart, and softness.
It's fantastic when -- for
when you're feeling more love
or you want to expand the
love that you're feeling,
or you want to attract
someone into your life
that is a loving partner.
>> LG: So wearing pink or --
>> IS: Wearing, sending it
to yourself, wearing jewelry
for women that is pink, nail
polish, anything that gives you
that energy, or decorating
your house
where you have some
of that pink colors.
>> LG: Maybe in a bedroom, to
have those sorts of colors --
>> IS: Yeah, yeah.
>> LG: -- just in a small
area or a section that you
like because it might
overwhelm --
>> IS: Yeah, yeah.
A little bit, you learn.
>> LG: [Inaudible] But in terms
of, well, silver, of course,
we want to talk about that, too.
This is such a pretty picture.
>> IS: Yeah.
Silver is about strengthening.
So whenever we need that
strength and we need
to strengthen ourselves, we
need to have more clarity,
we need to feel, okay, you know,
I'm feeling a little bit weak.
Or I need to connect
my mind, body, spirit,
that's another great
color, you know.
Or I need to connect
with someone.
>> LG: And now, you can
use these cards as kind
of reading cards, like
a tarot type of thing.
>> IS: Yeah.
Yeah. So I can say,
okay, I have a question.
And, you know, I focus
on that question,
and then I shuffle the cards,
and I put some energy into them,
you know, just take a moment
so I get the best information,
and then I pull a card,
and let's say, you know,
the first one is
jade, take action.
And this might be the card that
I'm going to work with today.
I need to focus on
taking action.
This is my intuitive guidance.
>> LG: Pick a card for the day.
>> IS: Or, you know,
I might say,
this is the color
I need to wear.
Or maybe I need to
eat this color
or I need to drink this color.
>> LG: Interesting.
>> IS: Because I want people
to bring it into their life.
Or I might say, you know what?
I need to -- I want
to do a reading
from past, present, and future.
So I picked this color,
and this is about the past,
the actions that I took.
And then I take another card,
and this one says,
purify your body.
So maybe I wasn't eating
well or I wasn't exercising,
and now I need that
purification of my body.
And then the next thing
that's going to happen
for me is improving my
vision, and I can look at that
as improving my vision,
my eyesight,
or improving my vision
of my life.
How am I going to see my life?
What am I going to
do in my life now?
>> LG: And then you'll start
to see things around your life
that resonate towards
those particular colors.
>> IS: Yeah.
>> LG: And then you use those
colors for healing energy.
>> IS: Yeah.
I can place, you know, these
colors on my body, especially --
let's say I'm doing a
chakra healing, you know,
and I might say, okay, indigo,
I'm going to place
in on my third eye.
But maybe it's not
going to be my third eye
because I want people to
play and have no rules.
You know, and I literally place
that color on my body, you know,
and I breathe that color in,
and it's like -- it starts to --
because it's touching my skin,
and the skin is the largest
organ inside the body,
and there's a lot chemical
reactions that happen
within the skin when a color
or an energy touches the
skin, so I can put it.
I can put it in water.
If I want to charge water
[inaudible], I can place it
like this, or like that, and
send some energy with my hands
to it like I was showing you,
and the water's going
to taste different.
>> LG: You can change the
structure of the water?
>> IS: Yeah.
>> LG: Fascinating.
I mean, I know you can do that
with words and vibrations.
There's a lot of different
studies around that,
so you can do it
with color as well.
>> IS: Yeah, definitely.
>> LG: Fascinating.
So what is the main message
that you would like people
to take away from your work?
>> IS: I want people to start
to understand that a life
of wellness means that you
choose how to live that life,
that you allow yourself
to expand, that there are
so many possibilities in life,
that you can heal your body.
But it doesn't stop there.
You can heal your life.
You can transform your life.
You can expand your life.
You can have miracles.
You can have incredible
connections
with people that nourish you.
You can have a connection
with your soul, with divinity.
You can have fantastic
relationships.
And it can be easy.
It doesn't have to
be a struggle.
It doesn't have to be hard.
Life is magical.
It's amazing.
It's incredible.
It's miraculous.
Every day gives you an
opportunity to start again.
And if you're willing to open
your mind, open your heart,
connect to your soul, and try
things, anything is possible.
The impossible is possible.
>> LG: And then you could also
take that energy and heal others
as you do, you know,
through those connections,
through color, through love,
through those different
types of energies as well.
So once you understand that
and get comfortable with that
in your own body, then you
can forward it to others.
That's wonderful.
>> IS: Magical.
>> LG: Magical.
Thank you so much.
And thank you for being here.
And I know that you've
traveled all over the world
and your teachings are vast
and catching on like wildfire.
So thank you so much
for joining me today.
I appreciate it.
>> IS: Thank you for having me.
I had a great time.
>> LG: I had a good time
to thank you very much.
And if you want to watch
a replay with my interview
with Inna Segal, or share it
with your friends,
go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[ Music ]